doc: add install test info to hacking.md (#6652)
NixOS/nix: doc/manual/src/contributing/hacking.md

$ nix develop
```

> ## Testing Nix

Reviewer: I think it should be clear that it's about Nix.

```suggestion
## Running tests
```

Author: The titles "Testing Nix" and "Testing the install scripts" aren't trying to clarify that you're here to test the Nix project, they're trying to clarify that the testing procedures for Nix itself and its installer scripts are separate.

Not married to the phrasing, but "Running tests" erases this distinction and suggests it runs when all of the tests when it doesn't?

Reviewer: Ah, sorry, I misread the heading level to be different. Updated [the other suggestion](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/pull/6652/files/9b7bd2dd1fc83f6df449fce3967a95cb098ca4b2#r972703644) to make it part of the list of test procedures.

Author: adopted change locally, available when I push

> Nix comes with three different flavors of tests: unit, functional and integration.
> 

Reviewer: This line is invalidated by your addition, and I see no point in maintaining it.

```suggestion
```

Because these tests are expensive and require more than what the standard github-actions setup provides, they only run on the master branch (on <https://hydra.nixos.org/jobset/nix/master>).

You can run them manually with `nix build .#hydraJobs.tests.{testName}` or `nix-build -A hydraJobs.tests.{testName}`

### Installer tests

> With just a little one-time setup, the Nix repository's GitHub Actions continuous integration (CI) workflow can easily test the installer each time you push to a branch.

Reviewer: I would abstain from value judgements. What may be a little
or easy for you may be overwhelming for others.

 ```suggestion
After a one-time setup, the Nix repository's GitHub Actions continuous integration (CI) workflow can test the installer each time you push to a branch.
```

Author: This isn't a value judgement about how easy it is for _me_, it's a value judgement about how manually building your own installer and testing it is an exercise in masochism. I think it's important to invite people who've been scarred by how hard this has been historically to give the automated workflow a try, but I'd rather move on at this point.

Creating a Cachix cache for your installer tests and adding its authorization token to GitHub enables [two installer-specific jobs in the CI workflow](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/blob/88a45d6149c0e304f6eb2efcc2d7a4d0d569f8af/.github/workflows/ci.yml#L50-L91):

- The `installer` job generates installers for the platforms below and uploads them to your Cachix cache:
  - `x86_64-linux`
  - `armv6l-linux`
  - `armv7l-linux`
  - `x86_64-darwin`

- The `installer_test` job (which runs on `ubuntu-latest` and `macos-latest`) will try to install Nix with the cached installer and run a trivial Nix command.

#### One-time setup

> 1. Have a GitHub account with a fork of the Nix repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Have a GitHub account with a fork of the [Nix repository](https://github.com/NixOS/nix).
```

Trying to minimize potential for open questions and confusion...

Because these tests are expensive and require more than what the standard github-actions setup provides, they only run on the master branch (on <https://hydra.nixos.org/jobset/nix/master>).

You can run them manually with `nix build .#hydraJobs.tests.{testName}` or `nix-build -A hydraJobs.tests.{testName}`

## Testing the install scripts

Testing the install scripts has traditionally been tedious, but you can now do this much more easily via the GitHub Actions CI runs (at least for platforms that Github Actions supports).

> If you've already pushed to a fork of Nix on GitHub before, you may have noticed that the CI workflows in your fork list skipped "installer" and "installer_test" jobs. Once your Nix fork is set up correctly, pushing to it will also run these jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've already pushed to a fork of Nix on GitHub before, you may have noticed that the CI workflows in your fork list skipped `installer` and `installer_test` jobs. Once your Nix fork is set up correctly, pushing to it will also run these jobs.
```

Please always highlight code objects as `code`.

> - The `installer` job will generate installers for these platforms: x86_64-linux, armv6l-linux, armv7l-linux, x86_64-darwin. While this installer is in your Cachix cache, you can use it for manual testing on any of these platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `installer` job will generate installers for these platforms: `x86_64-linux`, `armv6l-linux`, `armv7l-linux`, `x86_64-darwin`. While this installer is in your Cachix cache, you can use it for manual testing on any of these platforms.
```

- the `installer_test` job will try to use this installer and run a trivial Nix command on `ubuntu-latest` and `macos-latest`.

> ### One-time setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### One-time setup

```

Because these tests are expensive and require more than what the standard github-actions setup provides, they only run on the master branch (on <https://hydra.nixos.org/jobset/nix/master>).

You can run them manually with `nix build .#hydraJobs.tests.{testName}` or `nix-build -A hydraJobs.tests.{testName}`

## Testing the install scripts

Testing the install scripts has traditionally been tedious, but you can now do this much more easily via the GitHub Actions CI runs (at least for platforms that Github Actions supports).

If you've already pushed to a fork of Nix on GitHub before, you may have noticed that the CI workflows in your fork list skipped `installer` and `installer_test` jobs. Once your Nix fork is set up correctly, pushing to it will also run these jobs.

> - The `installer` job will generate installers for these platforms: `x86_64-linux`, `armv6l-linux`, `armv7l-linux`, `x86_64-darwin`. While this installer is in your Cachix cache, you can use it for manual testing on any of these platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `installer` job will generate installers for these platforms:
  - `x86_64-linux`
  - `armv6l-linux`
  - `armv7l-linux`
  - `x86_64-darwin`.
  
  While this installer is in your Cachix cache, you can use it for manual testing on any of these platforms.
```

Just a bit more structure so the presentation is less dense.

Because these tests are expensive and require more than what the standard github-actions setup provides, they only run on the master branch (on <https://hydra.nixos.org/jobset/nix/master>).

You can run them manually with `nix build .#hydraJobs.tests.{testName}` or `nix-build -A hydraJobs.tests.{testName}`

> ## Testing the install scripts

Reviewer: To make it consistent with the other sections:

```suggestion
## Installer tests
```

Author: adopted change locally, available when I push

> Testing the install scripts has traditionally been tedious, but you can now do this much more easily via the GitHub Actions CI runs (at least for platforms that Github Actions supports).
> 
> If you've already pushed to a fork of Nix on GitHub before, you may have noticed that the CI workflows in your fork list skipped `installer` and `installer_test` jobs. Once your Nix fork is set up correctly, pushing to it will also run these jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing the install scripts is currently most convenient with GitHub Actions.

The Nix repository has [two continuous integration (CI) workflows](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/blob/88a45d6149c0e304f6eb2efcc2d7a4d0d569f8af/.github/workflows/ci.yml#L50-L91), which are run every time changes are pushed to a branch:

```

Author: I realize this will grow crusty over time and will be moot if the ~binary installer project reaches fruition, but I'm trying to drop breadcrumbs that encourage people who attempted some small installer fix/improvement in the past (only to be scarred by the testing/review ~process) to take a second look.

Author: I have a reworked draft of the section covered by this edit and the one below, but I'll hold off on committing and pushing until we hash out the title question.

- The `installer` job will generate installers for these platforms:
  - `x86_64-linux`
  - `armv6l-linux`
  - `armv7l-linux`
  - `x86_64-darwin`.
  
  While this installer is in your Cachix cache, you can use it for manual testing on any of these platforms.

> - the `installer_test` job will try to use this installer and run a trivial Nix command on `ubuntu-latest` and `macos-latest`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `installer_test` job will try to use this installer and run a trivial Nix command on `ubuntu-latest` and `macos-latest`.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

These workflows can also set up on your fork of the Nix repository.

```

### One-time setup

1. Have a GitHub account with a fork of the Nix repo.
2. At cachix.org:
    - Create or log in to an account.
    - Create a Cachix cache using the format `<github-username>-nix-install-tests`.
    - Navigate to the new cache > Settings > Auth Tokens.

>     - Generate a new cachix auth token and copy the generated value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Generate a new Cachix auth token and copy the generated value.
```

4. At github.com:
    - Navigate to your Nix fork > Settings > Secrets > Actions > New repository secret.
    - Name the secret `CACHIX_AUTH_TOKEN`
    - Paste the copied value of the Cachix cache auth token.

### Using the CI-generated installer for manual testing

> After the CI run completes, you can check the output to extract the installer url:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the CI run completes, you can check the output to extract the installer URL:
```

1. Click into the detailed view of the CI run.
2. Click into any `installer_test` run (the URL you're here to extract will be the same in all of them).
3. Click into the `Run cachix/install-nix-action@v...` step and click the detail triangle next to the first log line (it will also be `Run cachix/install-nix-action@v...`)

> 4. Copy the install_url
> 5. To generate an install command, plug this install_url and your github username into this template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Copy the value of `install_url`
5. To generate an install command, plug this `install_url` and your GitHub username into this template:
```
